A dram of Scotch is 1/8 of an ounce.

Buying a bottle of Laphraig entitles you to own one square foot of land at the distillery.

As whiskey matures in the barrel two to four percent evaporates each year. This loss is referred to by distillers as the "angel's share".

As whiskey is aged in barrels some amount of it absorbs into the wood. Distillers refer to this loss as the "devil's cut".

The word whiskey comes from the Gaelic term "uisge beatha", meaning "water of life".

Whiskey is typically spelled with an 'e' in the United States and Ireland, other countries spell it "whisky".

In order for a whiskey to be classified as a scotch, it has to be distilled in Scotland and aged for at least three years in oak casks.

The distillation process used to make whiskey was invented 4,000 years ago in Babylon and Mesopotamia.

Moderate use of whiskey can increase a person's metabolism.

In 1964 Congress declared bourbon "America's Native Spirit." To be called bourbon it must be made in the United States.

95% of bourbon is made in Kentucky.

There are more barrels of bourbon than people in Kentucky.

Mountain Dew was invented as a mixer for whiskey. The original slogan for the soft drink was "It'll tickle yore innards!"

Tabasco sauce is aged in used whiskey barrels.

George Washington started a whiskey distillery in 1797. Two years later it was the largest producer of whiskey in the country.



World Whisky Day takes place on the third Saturday in May each year.

American rye whiskey is legally required to be made from at least 51% rye, distilled to no more than 80% ABV, and bottled at no less than 40% ABV.

Rye whiskey was very popular in the early years of the United States but largely disappeared after prohibition. It has recently been making a comeback.

Bourbon and rye must both be aged in new charred-oak barrels.

Rye is generally spicier and less sweet than bourbon.

“There is no bad whiskey. There are only some whiskeys that aren't as good as others.”
― Raymond Chandler

"Happiness is having a rare steak, a bottle of whisky, and a dog to eat the rare steak." - Johnny Carson

“The water was not fit to drink. To make it palatable, we had to add whisky. By diligent effort, I learnt to like it” – Sir Winston Churchill

“Whisky is liquid sunshine” – George Bernard Shaw

“Too much of anything is bad, but too much of good whiskey is barely enough” – Mark Twain

“Tell me what brand of whiskey that Grant drinks. I would like to send a barrel of it to my other generals.” - Abraham Lincoln

”I wish to live to 150 years old, but the day I die, I wish it to be with a cigarette in one hand and a glass of whiskey in the other.” - Ava Gardner























